LangGraph Blog (#93)
mlflow/mlflow-website: website/blog/2024-08-06-langgraph-pyfunc/index.md

---
title: LangGraph with Custom PyFunc 
tags: [genai, mlops]
slug: mlflow-tracing
authors: [mlflow-maintainers]
thumbnail: img/blog/release-candidates.png
---

In this blog, we'll guide you through creating a LangGraph chatbot within an MLflow custom PyFunc.

### What is a Custom PyFunc?

> While MLflow strives to cover the many popular machine learning libraries, there are libraries and pieces of functionality within supported libraries that are not natively supported. For these cases, when users want MLflow functionality they can create a custom PyFunc model. 

Reviewer: Can we adjust the tone to not mention "not supported" and instead refer to the proliferation of packages that support Agent Frameworks and how even if there isn't a popular package YET supported natively, you can still get all of the benefits of MLflow tracking and deployment by using a custom pyfunc?

> Custom PyFunc models allow you to integrate any Python code, providing flexibility in defining complex and niche machine learning models. These models can be easily logged, managed, and deployed using the typical MLflow APIs, enhancing flexibility and portability in machine learning workflows.

Reviewer: Adjust from "niche machine learning models" to something a bit more broad - GenAI apps & AI models. Similar with "machine learning workflows" -> AI development workflows

### What is LangGraph?

> LangGraph is a library for building stateful, multi-actor applications with LLMs, used to create agent and multi-agent workflows. Compared to other LLM frameworks, it offers these core benefits: cycles, controllability, and persistence. LangGraph allows you to define flows that involve cycles, essential for most agentic architectures, differentiating it from DAG-based solutions. As a very low-level framework, it provides fine-grained control over both the flow and state of your application, crucial for creating reliable agents. Additionally, LangGraph includes built-in persistence, enabling advanced human-in-the-loop and memory features.

Reviewer: Can we convert the benefits to a bullet list with links to their docs pages / tutorial notebooks that showcase how to create these? 
The more links to their docs, the better :)

Author: They mostly have a single mono-tutorial that also explains concepts somewhat. Unfortunately there's no "concept" guides like with LlamaIndex.

> LangGraph is inspired by Pregel and Apache Beam. The public interface draws inspiration from NetworkX. LangGraph is built by LangChain Inc, the creators of LangChain, but can be used without LangChain.

Reviewer: Package name / company name href links

# The Code

### Setup

> First, we must install the required dependencies. We will use OpenAI for our LLM, but LangChain paired with LangGraph makes it easy to substitute your desired LLM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we must install the required dependencies. We will use OpenAI for our LLM in this example, but using LangChain with LangGraph makes it easy to substitute any alternative supported LLM or LLM provider.
```

```python

> %%capture --no-stderr

Reviewer: Is this super chatty? 
Typically I put statements like this that send warnings / messages to devnull void of dispair only when doing a screen recording of running something. This might look fishy to leave this in.

> %pip install -U langgraph langsmith mlflow

Reviewer: Let's add a block section above this to explain what versions of each of these packages were used when publishing - similar to what we do in the docs

Author: Adding version number seems more concise, conveys the same information, ensures reproducibility, and is in line with many of the recent MLflow tutorials/guides. Just added versions to each pip install.

Happy to change to a description if that's better

Reviewer: SGTM

> %pip install --upgrade typing_extensions

Reviewer: Why do we have this statement using the alternate syntax? `--upgrade` == `-U`

Author: This came from their tutorial. Will change

> # Used for this tutorial; not a requirement for LangGraph

Reviewer: I don't think we need this comment :) If it were a requirement for LangGraph, it would get installed as part of the pip install of langgraph, right?

%pip install -U langchain_openai
```

Next, let's get our relevant secrets.

```python
import os
import getpass

def _set_env(var: str):
    if not os.environ.get(var):
        os.environ[var] = getpass.getpass(f"{var}: ")

_set_env("OPENAI_API_KEY")
_set_env("LANGSMITH_API_KEY")

> ```

Reviewer: Let's just have a simple check that they are defined in the ENV_VARs for the system and a little note reminding users (with a link to our section in the docs on setting OPENAI keys) to set these to have access to these systems

### Custom Dependencies

> Before building our custom PyFunc model, let's first review what PyFunc does. When you specify a model to log, MLflow will try to leverage `cloudpickle` to store the serialized model. Along with this model artifact, MLflow will store the signature, which can be passed or inferred from the `model_input` parameter. It will also log inferred model dependencies to help you serve the model in a new environment.

Reviewer: Let's make it a bit more obvious that the legacy version of saving pyfunc uses cloudpickle for serialization. 
I would make this a compare / contrast view to make it clear that standard pyfunc saving will attempt to create a binary representation of the code references (with limitations, which is why it is so frustrating for people to use, namely around recursion depth and references to nested dependencies / mutable object states that themselves can't be serialized properly), while what we're doing with models from code is quite simple - just executing a python script that is defined, the same that any system would do when 'running' any code.

However, as with many other packages, pickling objects is often not supported by LangGraph chains. 

To get around this issue, we will leverage the [code_paths](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/model/dependencies.html?highlight=code_paths#saving-extra-code-with-an-mlflow-model-manual-declaration) argument to specify a custom dependency. Instead of serializing the entire LangGraph chain, we'll look to reload it from a python file. 

Below, we use the magic `%%writefile` command to create a new file in a jupyter notebook context. If you're running this outside of an interactive notebook, simply create the file below, omitting the `%%writefile graph_chain.py` line.

```python

> %%writefile graph_chain.py

Reviewer: I would add a comment here for those readers who only read the code blocks

#omit this line if directly creating this file; this command is purely for running within Jupyter

from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI
from typing import Annotated
from typing_extensions import TypedDict
from langgraph.graph import StateGraph, START, END
from langgraph.graph.message import add_messages

class State(TypedDict):
    messages: Annotated[list, add_messages]

graph_builder = StateGraph(State)
llm = ChatOpenAI()

def chatbot(state: State):
    return {"messages": [llm.invoke(state["messages"])]}

graph_builder.add_node("chatbot", chatbot)
graph_builder.add_edge(START, "chatbot")
graph_builder.add_edge("chatbot", END)
compiled_graph = graph_builder.compile()
```

By the end of this step, you should see another file in your current directory with the name `graph_chain.py`.

### Custom PyFunc
Great! Now that the custom dependency is created at `./graph_chain.py`, we are ready to declare a custom PyFunc and log the model.

> To quickly summarize the code below, we look to create a class that inherits from `mlflow.pyfunc.PythonModel`. Within that class we create a `predict` method that is standard to MLflow. We also create a variety of helpers to facilitate chatbot functionality. One notable call-out is that in the `predict` method, we import out custom `compiled_graph` object from the `graph_chain` python module created in the above step. That will dynamically instantiate our chain without using pickle!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To quickly summarize the code below, we look to create a class that inherits from `mlflow.pyfunc.PythonModel`. Within that class we create a `predict` method that is standard to MLflow. We also create a variety of helpers to facilitate chatbot functionality. One notable call-out is that in the `predict` method, we perform the import of our custom `compiled_graph` object from the `graph_chain` python module created in the above step. The reason that this is possible is due to the fact that we execute the stored script when loading the model into an inference environment, just as you would execute any python script. Running the script makes the `graph_chain` reference available to the REPL.
```

```python
# Load the model
loaded_model = mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(f"runs:/{run_id}/langgraph_model")

# Show inference and message history
print("-------- Message 1 -----------")
message = "What's my name?"
print(f"User: {message}")
print(f"Agent: {loaded_model.predict(message)}")

print("\n-------- Message 2 -----------")
message = "My name is Morpheus."
print(f"User: {message}")
print(f"Agent: {loaded_model.predict(message)}")

print("\n-------- Message 3 -----------")
message = "What's my name?"
print(f"User: {message}")
print(f"Agent: {loaded_model.predict(message)}")
```

Ouput:
```text
-------- Message 1 -----------
User: What's my name?
Agent: I'm sorry, but I do not have the ability to know your name unless you provide it to me. How can I assist you today?

-------- Message 2 -----------
User: My name is Morpheus?
Agent: Hello Morpheus! How can I assist you today?

-------- Message 3 -----------
User: What's my name?
Agent: Your name is Morpheus. How can I assist you today?
```

### Conclusion
There are many logical extensions of the this tutorial, however the MLflow components can remain largely unchanged. 

To summarize, here's what was covered in this tutorial:

> * Declaring an MVP LangGraph chain within an additional python file.

Reviewer: MVP is a bit esoteric. We can just say 'simple'

Reviewer: And we can call it a 'script'

    messages: list = []
    graph = None

    def _format_input(self, text_input) -> dict:
        """Convert a string to a user message."""
        # Use an MLflow utility to clean the input
        converted_input = _convert_llm_input_data(text_input)

        # Handle lists (production logic would be more complex)
        if isinstance(converted_input, list):
            converted_input = next(iter(converted_input))

        # Format as dict of messages and return
        return {"messages": self.messages + [HumanMessage(converted_input)]}

    def _parse_output(self, message_output: dict) -> str:
        """Get the last message from the output."""
        # Append to message history
        self.messages = message_output["messages"]

        # Return the last message str
        return self.messages[-1].content

    def load_context(self, context):
        # Validate enviornment variable secrets are present
        required_secrets = ["OPENAI_API_KEY", "LANGSMITH_API_KEY"]

        if missing_keys := [key for key in required_secrets if not os.environ.get(key)]:
            raise ValueError(f"The following keys are missing: {missing_keys}")

>         # Add project environent variables if not present
>         os.environ["LANCHAIN_TRACING_V2"] = (
>             "true"
>             if not os.environ.get("LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2")
>             else os.environ.get("LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2")
>         )
>         os.environ["LANGCHAIN_PROJECT"] = (
>             "LangGraph MLflow Tutorial"
>             if not os.environ.get("LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2")
>             else os.environ.get("LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2")
>         )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Add project environent variables if not present
        os.environ["LANCHAIN_TRACING_V2"] = os.environ.get("LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2", "true")
        os.environ["LANGCHAIN_PROJECT"] = os.environ.get("LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2", "LangGraph MLflow Tutorial")
```

    def predict(self, context, input_data: str, params: dict = None):
        # Import from the `graph_chain.py` module specified in the `code_paths` argument
        from graph_chain import compiled_graph

>         self.graph = compiled_graph

Reviewer: Will this work if placed in the `load_context` scope? 
If yes, let's put it there to save on object creation references with each invocation call to predict. 
If no, we need to add a comment and explanation about why this doesn't work when defining the inference object.

Author: Great catch

    def _format_input(self, text_input) -> dict:
        """Convert a string to a user message."""
        # Use an MLflow utility to clean the input
        converted_input = _convert_llm_input_data(text_input)

        # Handle lists (production logic would be more complex)
        if isinstance(converted_input, list):
            converted_input = next(iter(converted_input))

        # Format as dict of messages and return
        return {"messages": self.messages + [HumanMessage(converted_input)]}

    def _parse_output(self, message_output: dict) -> str:
        """Get the last message from the output."""
        # Append to message history
        self.messages = message_output["messages"]

        # Return the last message str
        return self.messages[-1].content

    def predict(self, context, input_data: str, params: dict = None):
        # Format the string input as messages
        state = self._format_input(input_data)

        # Run inference on our loaded chain
        output_messages = self.graph.invoke(state)

        # Update messages and return the string
        return self._parse_output(output_messages)

mlflow.models.set_model(LangGraphCustomChain())
```

> ### Custom PyFunc

Author: Refactored a lot of the post ~30 minutes after you reviewed 🙂 

I think the new structure addresses this, but lmk if it's still an issue

Now that we have successfully logged a model, we can load it and leverage it for inference. 

In the code below, we demonstrate that our chat chain has memory!

```python
# Load the model
loaded_model = mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(f"runs:/{run_id}/langgraph_model")

# Show inference and message history
print("-------- Message 1 -----------")
message = "What's my name?"
print(f"User: {message}")
print(f"Agent: {loaded_model.predict(message)}")

print("\n-------- Message 2 -----------")
message = "My name is Morpheus."
print(f"User: {message}")
print(f"Agent: {loaded_model.predict(message)}")

print("\n-------- Message 3 -----------")
message = "What's my name?"
print(f"User: {message}")
print(f"Agent: {loaded_model.predict(message)}")
```

Ouput:
```text
-------- Message 1 -----------
User: What's my name?
Agent: I'm sorry, but I do not have the ability to know your name unless you provide it to me. How can I assist you today?

-------- Message 2 -----------
User: My name is Morpheus.
Agent: Hello Morpheus! How can I assist you today?

-------- Message 3 -----------
User: What's my name?
Agent: Your name is Morpheus. How can I assist you today?
```

### Conclusion

> There are many logical extensions of the this tutorial, however the MLflow components can remain largely unchanged. 

Reviewer 2: List a couple of potential interesting mlflow+langgraph projects/extensions?
